## Javascript with Webpack

Webpack is a JavaScript bundler for your web application. A `dist` folder will be used to serve your application from.

Add in the basic HTML template to your index.html:

>  /dist/index.html
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Hello Webpack</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div>
      <h1>Hello Webpack</h1>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

`index.js` needs to be linked to `index.html`. This would normally be done via a link in the html file but with many JS files this could become messy, very quickly. 

So Webpack is used to generate one JavaScript bundle from all our source code in the src/ folder, which will be automatically put into your dist/ folder afterward. Then, it can be used in our entry point HTML file the following way:

```
<script src="./bundle.js"></script>
```

Webpack now needs to be installed:

```
npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-dev-server webpack-cli
```
*Note: Development dependencies (short: dev dependencies, indicated with --save-dev) are not bundled in your production code later on.*

In `package.json` change the start value to 
```
"start": "webpack-dev-server --mode development"
```

Running this command will now start the server and serve our `index.html` but there is no `bundle.js` to link it to as we haven't told webpack to do this yet. 

Change `package.json` to the following:

```
"start": "webpack-dev-server --config ./webpack.config.js --mode development"
```

The `webpack.config.js` now needs to be created in root folder with the following config:

>/webpack.config.js

```
module.exports = {

  entry: './src/index.js',

  output: {
    path: __dirname + '/dist',
    publicPath: '/',
    filename: 'bundle.js'
  },

  devServer: {
    contentBase: './dist'
  }
};
```
`entry` tells webpack where to compile from.<br>
`output` tell webpack where to compile to. At this point the bundle.js is served in memory.<br>
`devServer` tells webpack where we will be serving our app from.


[Wieruch Guide](https://www.robinwieruch.de/webpack-setup-tutorial)
